---
page_title: "freeipa_group Data Source - freeipa"
description: |-
FreeIPA User Group data source
---

# freeipa_group (Data Source)



## Example Usage

```terraform
data "freeipa_group" "group-0" {
  name = "test-group"
}
```


<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) Group name

	- The name must not exceed 32 characters.
	- The name must contain only lowercase letters (a-z), digits (0-9), and the characters (. - _).
	- The name must not start with a special character.
	- A user and a group cannot have the same name.

### Read-Only

- `description` (String) Group Description
- `gid_number` (Number) GID (use this option to set it manually)
- `id` (String) ID of the resource in the terraform state
- `member_external` (List of String) List of external users (from trusted domain) that are member of this group.
- `member_group` (List of String) List of groups that are member of this group.
- `member_indirect_group` (List of String) List of groups that are is indirectly member of this group.
- `member_indirect_user` (List of String) List of users that are is indirectly member of this group.
- `member_user` (List of String) List of users that are member of this group.
- `memberof_group` (List of String) List of groups this group is member of.
- `memberof_hbacrule` (List of String) List of HBAC rules this group is member of.
- `memberof_indirect_group` (List of String) List of groups this group is is indirectly member of.
- `memberof_indirect_hbacrule` (List of String) List of HBAC rules this group is indirectly member of.
- `memberof_indirect_sudorule` (List of String) List of SUDO rules this group is is indirectly member of.
- `memberof_sudorule` (List of String) List of SUDO rules this group is member of.
