---
page_title: "freeipa_sudo_rule Data Source - freeipa"
description: |-
  FreeIPA Sudo rule data source
---

# freeipa_sudo_rule (Data Source)

FreeIPA Sudo rule data source


## Example Usage

```terraform
data "freeipa_sudo_rule" "operators" {
  name = "operators"
}
```


<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) Name of the sudo rule

### Read-Only

- `commandcategory` (String) Command category the sudo rule is applied to (allowed value: all)
- `description` (String) Description of the sudo rule
- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable this sudo rule
- `hostcategory` (String) Host category the sudo rule is applied to (allowed value: all)
- `id` (String) ID of the resource in the terraform state
- `member_allow_sudo_cmd` (List of String) List of allowed sudo commands member of this sudo rule.
- `member_allow_sudo_cmdgroup` (List of String) List of allowed sudo command groups member of this sudo rule.
- `member_deny_sudo_cmd` (List of String) List of denied sudo commands member of this sudo rule.
- `member_deny_sudo_cmdgroup` (List of String) List of denied sudo command groups member of this sudo rule.
- `member_group` (List of String) List of user groups member of this sudo rule.
- `member_host` (List of String) List of hosts member of this sudo rule.
- `member_hostgroup` (List of String) List of host groups member of this sudo rule.
- `member_user` (List of String) List of users member of this sudo rule.
- `option` (List of String) List of options defined for this sudo rule.
- `order` (Number) Sudo rule order (must be unique)
- `runasgroup` (List of String) List of groups authorised to be run as.
- `runasgroupcategory` (String) Run as group category the sudo rule is applied to (allowed value: all)
- `runasuser` (List of String) List of users authorised to be run as.
- `runasusercategory` (String) Run as user category the sudo rule is applied to (allowed value: all)
- `usercategory` (String) User category the sudo rule is applied to (allowed value: all)
